I set up an international Consortium
based in London I can't tell you all the
details yet but we're we're we're trying
to put together
something like an alternative vision of
the future say an alternative to that
kind of apocalyptic narrative that's
being put forward at least implicitly by
organizations like the wef you know and
that's the virginal Planet rapacious
Tyrant you know all devouring consumer
religion and it's more like something
like well we want to ask people six key
questions Okay so
how do we get energy and resources at
the lowest possible cost as rapidly as
possible to the largest number of people
around the world
that's one question and so there's a
presumption in the question and here's
one of the presumptions you don't get to
save the planet by making Energy prices
so expensive that no one poor can afford
them that's off the table
so if you want to develop alternative
energy sources no problem you know
because hey man the more energy sources
we have the better but you don't get to
impose your utopian Vision in the
service of your narcissism on the poor
we're going to try to make the poor Rich
kind of try to Alleve the eight absolute
poverty pro-human view on environmental
stewardship front that's the next
question what are the major problems
that are confronting us how do we take a
sophisticated multi-dimensional view of
that how do we prioritize our attempts
to establish our states and our
International relationships properly so
that we prioritize human well-being you
know in harmony with nature to the
degree that's possible but human focused
and not predicated on the idea that
there are too many goddamn mouths on the
planet to feed and that you're evil if
you just think about having children
so then on the governance front this is
where it gets kind of more left-wing I
would say is none of the people involved
in this Consortium so far are very
thrilled with global corporate fascist
government media and uh and Co and uh
Corporation collusion you know and we're
seeing this at the high end it's like a
Tower of Babel is that the the powerful
players in the world are increasingly
collaborating to impose a top-down
vision of the future on everyone and
that's a future that's predicated on a
zero growth model and the idea that well
we'd need five planets really to support
everyone at the current standard of
living that obtains in the west so the
best pathway forward is to deny loans by
the World Bank to developing countries
so they can't develop you know energy
sources which all that'll mean is
they're going to burn wood and coal
obviously so so that's the third
question is you know how do we arrange
systems of governance to stop
the march of something like pathological
gigantism this is why I like people like
Russell Brand and also you to some
degree politically you know because you
guys are very
what would you say sensitive to the
danger of that kind of corrupt collusion
that regulatory capture that occurs when
corporate entities and media entities
and governmental entities are all in bed
together like the FDA and the CDC and
and so forth and so on Without End so
that's that's the third question the
fourth question is what do we put
forward as a vision on the family policy
front to facilitate the what would you
call it the encouragement and the
maintenance of long-term monogamous
couples who are child centered and to
make increasing the birth rate part of
that policy to put policies in place
that would support long-term stable
monogamous families two-parent families
and child centered you know because in
the west because we're very immature we
think that the purpose of a marriage is
the happiness of the people who are
involved in the marriage the husband and
the wife and that's just not the purpose
of marriage at all the purpose is
long-term facilitation of their
psychological and Spiritual Development
and the establishment of an environment
that's beneficial to children that's a
responsible way of thinking about it and
so we need to have a serious
conversation about what that means and
you know It's tricky because
like I think the ideal has to be
long-term committed monogamous
heterosexual relationships and I had a
big conversation with this about this
with Dave Rubin you know Reuben's gay
and he's married and him and his partner
now have two infants and we talked
through how that was it's a very hard
thing for them to arrange obviously why
well they're both male so that poses a
severe problem on the reproductive front
right and so they manage that and they
have two infants but it's very complex
and it isn't it's obviously not a
solution to the problem of relationship
and reproduction that's duplicatable
across long large numbers of people just
takes too many resources now I do think
we have to have an ideal
at the center of every concept but the
ideal can't be too rigid you know
because people
people aren't perfect you know in my own
family there's lots of people who are
divorced lots of people in lots of
people's families there are people who
are gay you know there are lots of
people in unhappy marriages nobody
attains the ideal
said the idea has to be surrounded by a
fringe of Tolerance but that doesn't
mean you sacrifice the ideal and the
ideal has to be well we know there's a
literature on fatherlessness you know
it's a bloody catastrophe fatherlessness
for obvious reasons you know human
children are complicated you think you
can maybe if you struggle madly as a
single parent you could do a decent job
and lots of single parents do but
you're asking a lot you know for a woman
to work
50 hours a week and then spend another
40 hours with their kids and to do both
of those optimally with no help you know
and we know perfectly well that when
women get divorced especially if they
have kids they tend to fall down the
economic hierarchy so it's very
difficult so that's another one of the
policies then another question we're
trying to make these into questions
rather than
you know we have the answer the other
question is well
it's pretty clear that we have to live
inside a story
and one story is power rules everything
but that's not a very good story it's a
very pathological story it's more like a
confession too if that's the story you
insist upon it's like so you think power
governs everything do you okay I know
what you're like so that's what you
truly believe see I believe the spirit
of voluntary play governs everything not
the spirit of power it's like voluntary
Association that's what we're doing in
this conversation
you know we're playing towards an end
and we're doing it voluntarily and we're
taking everybody along for the ride no
one's forced to do it so that's the
other thing no compulsion here it's got
to be Invitational and so we're trying
to work out what the story has to be and
on that front
I just finished
seminar in Miami and it first eight
parts of it were released on The Daily
wire three months ago Exodus seminar we
walked through the story of Exodus
Exodus means ex-hodos means the way
forward so it's the archetypal Narrative
of progression from tyranny and Chaos
into the future that's what the story is
and we uh we did half of it released it
on the daily wire Eight Episodes two
hours long
and we just recorded the last eight
sessions two weeks ago and that was an
absolute blast I really Stellar people
participating man I learned so much
I learned so much it's gonna take me
like two years to digest it but uh the
daily wire is going to release it all on
YouTube for free starting in two months
one episode a week for 16 weeks and then
we're gonna keep it on YouTube and the
daily wire for free for four months and
so and it it lays out a vision of uh of
appropriate governance as an all that's
an alternative to tyranny and to
chaos so in The Exodus story
so here here's this is this is very
germane to the notion of what might
constitute a proper story so the
question that you put forward in your
life is something like what Spirit
should guide you as you move ahead
and you might say well I don't need a
spirit to guide me it's like yeah you
don't have that option
some Spirit guides you might be your
stomach
might be you might be a worshiper of the
god priapus right he's the god of giant
erections that's what happens if your
whole identity is staked on your
sexuality it's like some spirit is going
to guide you that's life the question is
what is the highest spirit that could
guide you so in The Exodus story
the proposition of the story is the
highest spirit that could guide you is
the spirit that objects to tyranny and
that calls the enslaved to freedom and
that's the representation of God in
Exodus so that's what God is in The
Exodus story now that's not all that God
is in the biblical stories but that's
God In The Exodus story and so
that is the god that if you abide by
that God then you believe that tyranny
is implicitly wrong even if you
tyrannize yourself and that there's
something implicitly virtuous about
striving for Freedom especially if
you're enslaved so anyways that's the
voice that speaks to Moses and the voice
tells Moses to
tell the Pharaoh the Tyrant to let his
people go that's that famous line let my
people go but the line is actually let
my people go
so that they may worship me in the
desert okay so anyways
God through Moses calls the Israelites
out of
tyranny and he punishes the Tyrant and
so if you believe that fate punishes
tyrants you're already immersed in The
Exodus story to some degree if you
believe that tyranny is implicitly wrong
of course most Americans believe that
okay so now the Israelites leave the
tire tyranny you'd think hey man great
freedom
because now you're out of the Tyranny
but that isn't how life works this is
why people won't drop their tyrannical
presuppositions
because you go out of the tyranny
into the desert
not to the promised land
desert first and where it's what's the
desert everyone's lost no one knows
which way to go everyone fights everyone
turns to the worship of false Idols
everyone wants the Tyrant to re-assert
himself that's the situation we're in in
the aftermath of the death of God In The
West
and so
so that's really useful to know because
one of the things you might want to know
in your life is why do people cling to
their own tyrannical presuppositions and
the answer is well at least they're
orienting structures pathological as
they might be if you drop them you're
not redeemed you're just lost and the
idea that being lost is freedom
that's preposterous idea no one lost is
free they're just enveloped in chaos
okay so what happens in that Exodus
story is now the Israelites are out in
the desert wandering around for like
generations and uh they get all
fractious and fight and and
complain and start worshiping false
idols and
um they're scrapping with each other and
that's because they have the habits of
slaves they don't know how to govern
themselves and so they ask Moses to sit
as a judge
and so he does for
stories very unclear about this but for
a long time years and years morning Dawn
till midnight he's judging the
Israelites like mad and adjudicating
their squabbles and uh imagine what he's
doing eh
if you had to make peace
between a thousand people who were
squabbling with their you know their
wife or their or their friends or their
enemies
you have to render judgment on that you
know and for judgment to work the people
who are judged have to see the Judgment
as just because otherwise you have to
impose it by force right so if I hear
you arguing with someone and I try to
mediate I have to come up with a
solution that you'll both accept that
means I have to extract out of that
chaos some principle of order imagine
you do that a thousand times or five
thousand times so now you start to
understand the nature of the principles
of order
okay so now two things happened Jethro
who's Moses father-in-law comes along
he's in midianite a foreigner he says
you've got to stop doing this
you can't sit as judge on the Israelites
there are two reasons they need the
responsibility
and you shouldn't turn yourself into
another pharaoh
so if you take all the responsibility
unto yourself you become a tyrant and
the Israelites stay slaves so he says to
Jethro this is a signal moment in the
development of Western Culture by the
way he says you take the Israelites you
divide them into groups of ten and you
have each of the ten elect an elder
and then you take the groups of Elders
and you have them elect a meta Elder and
you do that all the way up to ten
thousands
and then you have the judgments that are
necessary rendered at the lowest level
of the hierarchy possible
so you know if I'm arguing with you
first we go to our Elder and then if the
Elder can't figure it out he gets the
elders together and maybe they render
judgment if they can it goes to the
Council of Elder elders and all the way
up and if it isn't mediated by the time
you have the groupings of ten thousand
then Moses gets to weigh in and that's
called subsidiarity and the idea is you
have to produce a hierarchy of
responsibility distributed
responsibility as an antitheist to
tyranny unto the desert and that's the
model for good governance and that's
symbolically equivalent to Mount Sinai
and it's also the model of the Ark of
the Covenant and the and the Tabernacle
so Jonathan paggio did a lovely job of
explaining that in this and so
and so part of the model that we're
trying to put forward in this group that
I'm describing is based on this
principle of subsidiary in the idea that
we want to encourage everyone to take as
much responsibility as possible at the
most local level possible right so take
responsibility for yourself
until you're good enough at that so you
can take responsibility maybe for a wife
and then if you're good enough at that
maybe you can extend that to some kids
and then maybe you can serve your local
community and then maybe you can serve
your state and maybe if you really get
good at it you could serve your nation
right but you're taking the
responsibility and here's the basic rule
all the responsibility you abdicate will
be taken up by tyrants
that's the that's the cardinal rule of
social organization
and so we're trying to build out this
story
that's based on the deepest elements of
Western tradition that's an an antidote
to the
well to the to the false claim that it's
only Power that rules because it's not
that's not right and there is a model of
of proper governance in there this idea
of a hierarchical structure of
responsibility it's the proper
computational structure it's not
top-down tyranny with fractionated
individuals and it's not utter chaos
it's ordered freedom and that's what God
tells Moses to tell the Pharaoh when he
says Let My People Go Let My People Go
no tyranny so that they may celebrate me
in the desert it's ordered freedom and
it's the ordered Freedom that comes
along with being oriented towards the
highest possible good
and so we're trying to work all that out
now we're going to have a conference in
London
October 31st November 1st and November
2nd we're going to bring about 2 000
people together that's an invited list
we want to bring in people who are
cultural figures and political figures
business figures and uh invite them to
this discussion and but we want to make
that completely public and we want to
open up the organization to Broad
membership as broad as possible and then
you know if if it's a success then we'll
open up the conferences as the years
progress to larger and larger numbers of
people but we can't you know we don't
have the expertise or the wherewithal to
manage that first off but we've got the
venue
already set up in London I've got all
sorts of people on board in Australia
and all through Europe and through the
UK and all through the United States
South America all sorts of people are
interested in participating and so we
want to help
put forward a vision
that's enticing and inviting it's like
imagine you could have the world you
wanted
you know none of this male enthusian
limits to growth nonsense we get our act
together everyone can have it can have
enough and maybe more than enough
there'll be enough educational
opportunity for everyone no one will be
scrabbling away in the dirt burning dung
poisoning themselves not food for
everyone